.github/pull_request_template.md, before:

# Description
### Summary:






### Changes and type of changes:

- 
- 
- 


---

# Checklist:

### Code related
- [ ] I have made corresponding changes to the documentation (i.e.: function, class, script header,
  README.md)
- [ ] I have commented hard-to-understand code 
- [ ] I have added tests that prove my fix is effective or that my feature works
- [ ] All tests pass locally with my changes (Check `tests/README.md` for
  local testing procedure) 

### PR creation related 
- [ ] My pull request `base ref` branch is set to the `dev` branch (the _build-system_ won't be triggered otherwise) 
- [ ] My pull request branch is up-to-date with the `dev` branch (the _build-system_ will reject it otherwise)

### PR description related 
- [ ] I have included a quick summary of the changes
- [ ] I have included a high-level list of changes and their corresponding type 
  - Types: `feat` `fix` `docs` `style` `refactor` `perf` `test` `build` `ci` `chore` `revert`
  - Breaking changes: `<type>!`
  - Reference: 
    - See `commit_msg_reference.md` in the repository root for details
    - [www.conventionalcommits.org](https://www.conventionalcommits.org)
- [ ] I have indicated the related issue's id with `# <issue-id>` if changes are of type `fix`

 ## Note for repository admins
 ### Release PR related
- Only repository admins have the privilege to `push/merge` on the default branch (ie: `main`) and the `release` branch.
- Keep PR in `draft` mode until all the release reviewers are ready to push the release. 
- Once a PR from `release` -> `main` branch is created (not in draft mode),  
  - it triggers the _build-system_ test
  - and it triggers the _semantic release automation_

Commit message:

docs: improvements to `pull_request_template.md`, `commit_msg_reference.md` and `README.md`

.github/pull_request_template.md, after:

# Description
### Summary:






### Changes and type of changes (quick overview):

- 
- 
- 


---

# Checklist:

### Code related
- [ ] I have made corresponding changes to the documentation (i.e.: function, class, script header,
  README.md)
- [ ] I have commented hard-to-understand code 
- [ ] I have added tests that prove my fix is effective or that my feature works
- [ ] All tests pass locally with my changes (Check `tests/README.md` for local testing procedure) 
- [ ] My commit messages follow the [conventional commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org) specification. See `commit_msg_reference.md` in the repository root for details

### PR creation related 
- [ ] My pull request `base ref` branch is set to the `dev` branch (the _build-system_ won't be triggered otherwise) 
- [ ] My pull request branch is up-to-date with the `dev` branch (the _build-system_ will reject it otherwise)

### PR description related 
- [ ] I have included a quick summary of the changes
- [ ] I have indicated the related issue's id with `# <issue-id>` if changes are of type `fix`

 ## Note for repository admins
 ### Release PR related
- Only repository admins have the privilege to `push/merge` on the default branch (ie: `main`) and the `release` branch.
- Keep PR in `draft` mode until all the release reviewers are ready to push the release. 
- Once a PR from `release` -> `main` branch is created (not in draft mode), it triggers the _build-system_ test
- On merge to the `main` branch, it triggers the _semantic-release automation_
