README.md, before:

<div align="center">

[//]: # ( ==== Logo ================================================== ) 
<br>
<br>
<a href="https://norlab.ulaval.ca">
    <picture>
      <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="/visual/norlab_logo_acronym_light.png">
      <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="/visual/norlab_logo_acronym_dark.png">
      <img alt="Shows an the dark NorLab logo in light mode and light NorLab logo in dark mode." src="/visual/norlab_logo_acronym_dark.png" width="175">
    </picture>
</a>
<br>
<br>

[//]: # ( ==== Title ================================================= )
# _NorLab Project Template_

[//]: # ( ==== Hyperlink and maintainer=============================== ) 
<sup>
    <a href="http://132.203.26.125:8111">NorLab TeamCity GUI</a>
    (VPN/intranet access) &nbsp; • &nbsp;
    <a href="https://hub.docker.com/repositories/norlabulaval">norlabulaval</a>
    (Docker Hub) &nbsp;
</sup>
<br>
<br>

[//]: # ( ==== Description =========================================== )
**A template repository for code-related research projects.
It’s meant to help kick-start repository creation by enabling software engineering 
research-oriented best practice.**
<br>
<br>
It has a few preconfigured tools such as an initialization script to speed up the repository 
customization process, a pull request template, a sematic-release github action, a standardized 
readme file with _NorLab_ or _VAUL_ logo, a git ignore file with common file/directory entries, a code owner 
designation file, JetBranins IDE run configurations and the basic directory structure. 

<br>

[//]: # ( ==== Badges ================================================ )
[![semantic-release: conventional commits](https://img.shields.io/badge/semantic--release-conventional_commits-453032?logo=semantic-release)](https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release)
<img alt="GitHub release (with filter)" src="https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/norlab-ulaval/template-norlab-project">

[//]: # (NorLab teamcity)
[//]: # (<a href="http://132.203.26.125:8111"><img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=JetBrains TeamCity&message=CI/CD&color=green?style=plastic&logo=teamcity" /></a>)

[//]: # (Dockerhub image badge)
[//]: # (TODO: Change "norlabulaval/libpointmatcher" in both url to "your-dockerhub-domain/your-image-name")
[//]: # (<a href="https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/norlabulaval/libpointmatcher/"> <img alt="Docker Image Version &#40;latest semver&#41;" src="https://img.shields.io/docker/v/norlabulaval/libpointmatcher?logo=docker"> </a>)



<br>

[//]: # ( ==== Maintainer ============================================ )
<sub>
Maintainer <a href="https://redleader962.github.io">Luc Coupal</a>
</sub>

<br>
<hr style="color:lightgray;background-color:lightgray">
</div>


[//]: # ( ==== Body ================================================== ) 
**Note:** For `latex` project such as writing proposal or conference paper, use a template from the following list of [NorLab `TeX` template repositories](https://github.com/norlab-ulaval?q=template&type=all&language=tex&sort=) instead.  

# How to use this template repository

- [ ] [Step 1 › Generate the new repository](#step-1--generate-the-new-repository)
- [ ] [Step 2 › Execute initialization script](#step-2--execute-initialization-script)
- [ ] [Step 3 › Make it your own](#step-3--make-it-your-own)
- [ ] [Step 4 › Configure the _GitHub_ repository settings](#step-4--configure-the-github-repository-settings)
- [ ] [Step 5 › Release automation: enable semantic versioning tools](#step-5--enable-release-automation-tools-semantic-versioning)

# Instructions
## Step 1 › Generate the new repository
1. Click on the buttons `Use this template` > `Create a new repository` 
    <br>
   ![img.png](visual/use_this_template_button.png)
2. find a meaningful repository name, don't worry you can change it latter (see BC Gov [Naming Repos](https://github.com/bcgov/BC-Policy-Framework-For-GitHub/blob/master/BC-Gov-Org-HowTo/Naming-Repos.md) recommendation for advice and best-practice)
3. Clone your new repository using the following command line
```shell
$ git clone --recurse-submodule https://github.com/<your-git-repository-url>
```

## Step 2 › Execute initialization script
(Support Unix system: Ubuntu and Mac OsX)

```shell
# From repository root, execute the following line
$ bash initialize_norlab_project_template.bash
# Follow the instruction on the console
```

It will execute the following steps:

1. Install resources (or skip):
    1. (optional) [Norlab Build System (NBS)](https://github.com/norlab-ulaval/norlab-build-system)
       submodule
    2. (optional) [NorLab Shell Script Tools (N2ST)](https://github.com/norlab-ulaval/norlab-shell-script-tools)
       submodule
    3. (optional) [_semantic-release_](https://semantic-release.gitbook.io) 
2. Customize 
   1. environment variable prefixes and shell functions project wide
   2. repository name references project wide
3. Manage readme files
   1. rename `README.md` to `NORLAB_PROJECT_TEMPLATE_INSTRUCTIONS.md`
   2. rename either `README.norlab_template.md` or `README.vaul_template.md` 
       to `README.md` and delete the other one
   3. customize url references 
4. Reset the content of `CHANGELOG.md`

When the script execution is done, you will end up with the following repository structure:
```markdown
my_new_cool_repo/
 ├── .github/
 │   ├── CODEOWNERS
 │   ├── pull_request_template.md
 │   └── workflows
 │       └── semantic_release.yml                 <-- Semantic-versioning (optional)
 ├── .junie/                                      <-- LLM/AI agent instructions
 │   ├── guidelines.md
 │   ├── recipes.md
 │   └── scratch.md
 ├── .run/                                        <-- JetBrains run configuration
 │   ├── openATerminalInUbuntuContainer.run.xml
 │   └── runBatsTestsAll.run.xml                  <-- norlab-shell-script-tools (optional)
 ├── src/
 │   ├── README.md
 │   └── dummy.bash
 ├── tests/
 │   ├── README.md
 │   ├── run_bats_core_test_in_n2st.bash          <-- norlab-shell-script-tools (optional)
 │   └── tests_bats                               <-- norlab-shell-script-tools (optional)
 ├── artifact/
 │   └── README.md
 ├── utilities
 │   ├── norlab-build-system                      <-- optional
 │   └── norlab-shell-script-tools                <-- optional
 ├── visual/
 │   └── ...
 ├── to_delete/                                   <-- to delete when done
 │   ├── NORLAB_PROJECT_TEMPLATE_INSTRUCTIONS.md 
 │   └── initialize_norlab_project_template.bash 
 ├── .aiignore
 ├── .gitignore
 ├── .gitmodules
 ├── .releaserc.json                               <-- Semantic-versioning (optional)
 ├── .env.my_new_cool_repo                         <-- norlab-shell-script-tools (optional)
 ├── README.md
 ├── CHANGELOG.md                                  <-- Semantic-versioning (optional)
 ├── commit_msg_reference.md
 └── version.txt                                   <-- Semantic-versioning (optional)
```

## Step 3 › Make it your own

1. Configure the repository directory structure for your project type
2. Modify the code owner designation file: `.github/CODEOWNERS`
3. Validate the content of `.gitignore` file
4. Modify the pull request template to fit your workflow needs: `.github/pull_request_template.md`
5. Make your new `README.md` file your own

**Note:** `CHANGELOG.md` and `version.txt` are both automatically generated
by _semantic-release_

## Step 4 › Configure the _GitHub_ repository settings

★ The `main` branch is sacred. It must be deployable at any given time.  
We **strongly recommend** you configure your repository following [**_Gitflow_**](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/comparing-workflows/gitflow-workflow) branching scheme
```
                                                      tag:release-1
┈┈ main ┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┴┈┈┈┈→
     └┈ develop ┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┴┈┈┈┈┈┈→  
                   └┈ feature 1 ┈┈┈┘    └┈ feature 2 ┈┈┈┘

```
with _**Branch Protection Rule**_ enable for the default branch (i.e. `main`) and the `dev` branches.
**Note**: 
- The name `main` or `master` are convention for the principal release branch.
- The name `dev`, `devel` or `develop` are convention for the bleeding edge branch.
- The name `beta` and `alpha` are convention pre-release branch.

Go to the `Settings` > `Branches` and click `Add branch protection rule` in the _Branch Protection Rule_ panel 

![branch_protection_rule_menu.png](visual/branch_protection_rule_menu.png)

and set the following:
1. Set _Branch name pattern_ to `main`
2. Set _Require a pull request before merging_
3. Set _Require conversation resolution before merging_
4. Set _Restrict who can push to matching branches_ and add names
5. If you use a Continuous Integration service such as _**GitHub actions**_ or our **_norlab-teamcity-server_**, set _Require status checks to pass before merging_ and set _Require branches to be up to date before merging_
6. Repeat for the `dev` branch
   


## Step 5 › Enable release automation tools (semantic versioning)  

### Why:
Assuming your repository is part of a bigger system, 
- easily identify the repository state currently in use as a dependency
- and escape "dependency hell". 

### How
Any push to the `main` branch will trigger the execution of [_semantic-release_](https://semantic-release.gitbook.io) which will analyse each commits message to determine the version bump following [_semantic versioning_](https://semver.org) scheme `MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH`.

### On version bump, 
- a new repository tag gets published with the newest versions number `v<MAJOR>.<MINOR>.<PATCH>`
- the `CHANGELOG.md` and the `version.txt` files gets updated
- a new repository release gets published on the _Releases_ page 

**Note:** not each commit type triggers a version bump e.g.
`<type>!` triggers a `MAJOR` version bump, 
`feat` triggers a `MINOR` version bump, 
`fix` and`perf` triggers a `PATCH` version bump
and all others such as `doc` and `style` will register for the next release but won't trigger one.


### Configuration
1. Adopt the [_conventional-commit_](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/) specification. This is a **hard requirement** for _semantic-release_.  
  See [commit_msg_reference.md](./commit_msg_reference.md) for a quick summary.
2. Configure the _**semantic-release**_ GitHub action implemented in the `.github/workflows/` directory. 
   1. You must generate a GitHub [personal access token](https://help.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/creating-a-personal-access-token-for-the-command-line) 
   2. and register it as a _Repository Secrets_ in the tab `Settings/secrets and variables/Actions` and name it `SEMANTIC_RELEASE_GH_TOKEN`.  
     Reference: [semantic-release/GitHub Actions](https://semantic-release.gitbook.io/semantic-release/recipes/ci-configurations/github-actions)  


---

# Questions: 

**I'm concern using _conventional-commit_ will slow me down:** 
<br> 
It does not discourage moving fast, ["It discourages moving fast in a disorganized way"](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/#doesnt-this-discourage-rapid-development-and-fast-iteration) 

**What if I want to revert a buggy release:**
<br> 
Either fix the bug and push a `fix` commit or revert the problematic commits and push a `revert` commit.  

**I don't want to use _semantic-release_ or _conventional-commit_ in my development workflow:**
<br>
No problem, just disable the _semantic-release_ github action by deleting the `.github/workflows/semantic_release.yml` file.

[//]: # (....MonTitre..............................................................................)

Commit message:

feat: add integration setup and teardown scripts for testing
- Introduced `setup_integration_test.bash` and `teardown_integration_test.bash` scripts.
- Updated `README.md` with instructions for branch protection and testing configurations.
- Enhanced `.gitignore` to exclude temporary and redundant testing files.
- Adjusted existing tests and scripts to support the new setup and teardown mechanisms.

Issue TNP-39, TNP-48, TNP-49, TNP-46

README.md, after:

<div align="center">

[//]: # ( ==== Logo ================================================== ) 
<br>
<br>
<a href="https://norlab.ulaval.ca">
    <picture>
      <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="/visual/norlab_logo_acronym_light.png">
      <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="/visual/norlab_logo_acronym_dark.png">
      <img alt="Shows an the dark NorLab logo in light mode and light NorLab logo in dark mode." src="/visual/norlab_logo_acronym_dark.png" width="175">
    </picture>
</a>
<br>
<br>

[//]: # ( ==== Title ================================================= )
# _NorLab Project Template_

[//]: # ( ==== Hyperlink and maintainer=============================== ) 
<sup>
    <a href="http://132.203.26.125:8111">NorLab TeamCity GUI</a>
    (VPN/intranet access) &nbsp; • &nbsp;
    <a href="https://hub.docker.com/repositories/norlabulaval">norlabulaval</a>
    (Docker Hub) &nbsp;
</sup>
<br>
<br>

[//]: # ( ==== Description =========================================== )
**A template repository for code-related research projects.
It’s meant to help kick-start repository creation by enabling software engineering 
research-oriented best practice.**
<br>
<br>
It has a few preconfigured tools such as an initialization script to speed up the repository 
customization process, a pull request template, a sematic-release github action, a standardized 
readme file with _NorLab_ or _VAUL_ logo, a git ignore file with common file/directory entries, a code owner 
designation file, JetBranins IDE run configurations and the basic directory structure. 

<br>

[//]: # ( ==== Badges ================================================ )
[![semantic-release: conventional commits](https://img.shields.io/badge/semantic--release-conventional_commits-453032?logo=semantic-release)](https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release)
<img alt="GitHub release (with filter)" src="https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/norlab-ulaval/template-norlab-project">

[//]: # (NorLab teamcity)
[//]: # (<a href="http://132.203.26.125:8111"><img src="https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=JetBrains TeamCity&message=CI/CD&color=green?style=plastic&logo=teamcity" /></a>)

[//]: # (Dockerhub image badge)
[//]: # (TODO: Change "norlabulaval/libpointmatcher" in both url to "your-dockerhub-domain/your-image-name")
[//]: # (<a href="https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/norlabulaval/libpointmatcher/"> <img alt="Docker Image Version &#40;latest semver&#41;" src="https://img.shields.io/docker/v/norlabulaval/libpointmatcher?logo=docker"> </a>)



<br>

[//]: # ( ==== Maintainer ============================================ )
<sub>
Maintainer <a href="https://redleader962.github.io">Luc Coupal</a>
</sub>

<br>
<hr style="color:lightgray;background-color:lightgray">
</div>


[//]: # ( ==== Body ================================================== ) 
**Note:** For `latex` project such as writing proposal or conference paper, use a template from the following list of [NorLab `TeX` template repositories](https://github.com/norlab-ulaval?q=template&type=all&language=tex&sort=) instead.  

# How to use this template repository

- [ ] [Step 1 › Generate the new repository](#step-1--generate-the-new-repository)
- [ ] [Step 2 › Execute initialization script](#step-2--execute-initialization-script)
- [ ] [Step 3 › Make it your own](#step-3--make-it-your-own)
- [ ] [Step 4 › Configure the _GitHub_ repository settings](#step-4--configure-the-github-repository-settings)
- [ ] [Step 5 › Release automation: enable semantic versioning tools](#step-5--enable-release-automation-tools-semantic-versioning)

# Instructions
## Step 1 › Generate the new repository
1. Click on the buttons `Use this template` > `Create a new repository` 
    <br>
   ![img.png](visual/use_this_template_button.png)
2. find a meaningful repository name, don't worry you can change it latter (see BC Gov [Naming Repos](https://github.com/bcgov/BC-Policy-Framework-For-GitHub/blob/master/BC-Gov-Org-HowTo/Naming-Repos.md) recommendation for advice and best-practice)
3. Clone your new repository using the following command line
```shell
$ git clone --recurse-submodule https://github.com/<your-git-repository-url>
```

## Step 2 › Execute initialization script
(Support Unix system: Ubuntu and Mac OsX)

```shell
# From repository root, execute the following line
$ bash initialize_norlab_project_template.bash
# Follow the instruction on the console
```

It will execute the following steps:

1. Install resources (or skip):
    1. (optional) [Norlab Build System (NBS)](https://github.com/norlab-ulaval/norlab-build-system)
       submodule
    2. (optional) [NorLab Shell Script Tools (N2ST)](https://github.com/norlab-ulaval/norlab-shell-script-tools)
       submodule
    3. (optional) [_semantic-release_](https://semantic-release.gitbook.io) 
2. Customize 
   1. environment variable prefixes and shell functions project wide
   2. repository name references project wide
3. Manage readme files
   1. rename `README.md` to `NORLAB_PROJECT_TEMPLATE_INSTRUCTIONS.md`
   2. rename either `README.norlab_template.md` or `README.vaul_template.md` 
       to `README.md` and delete the other one
   3. customize url references 
4. Reset the content of `CHANGELOG.md`

When the script execution is done, you will end up with the following repository structure:
```markdown
my_new_cool_repo/
 ├── .github/
 │   ├── CODEOWNERS
 │   ├── pull_request_template.md
 │   └── workflows
 │       └── semantic_release.yml                 <-- Semantic-versioning (optional)
 ├── .junie/                                      <-- LLM/AI agent instructions
 │   ├── plans/
 │   ├── guidelines.md
 │   ├── recipes.md
 │   └── scratch.md
 ├── .run/                                        <-- JetBrains run configuration
 │   ├── openATerminalInUbuntuContainer.run.xml
 │   └── runBatsTestsAll.run.xml                  <-- norlab-shell-script-tools (optional)
 ├── src/
 │   ├── README.md
 │   └── dummy.bash
 ├── tests/
 │   ├── README.md
 │   ├── run_bats_core_test_in_n2st.bash          <-- norlab-shell-script-tools (optional)
 │   └── tests_bats/                              <-- norlab-shell-script-tools (optional)
 ├── artifact/
 │   └── README.md
 ├── utilities
 │   ├── norlab-build-system                      <-- optional
 │   └── norlab-shell-script-tools                <-- optional
 ├── visual/
 │   └── ...
 ├── to_delete/                                   <-- to delete when done
 │   ├── NORLAB_PROJECT_TEMPLATE_INSTRUCTIONS.md 
 │   └── initialize_norlab_project_template.bash 
 ├── .aiignore
 ├── .gitignore
 ├── .gitmodules
 ├── .releaserc.json                               <-- Semantic-versioning (optional)
 ├── .env.my_new_cool_repo                         <-- norlab-shell-script-tools (optional)
 ├── README.md
 ├── CHANGELOG.md                                  <-- Semantic-versioning (optional)
 ├── commit_msg_reference.md
 └── version.txt                                   <-- Semantic-versioning (optional)
```

## Step 3 › Make it your own

1. Configure the repository directory structure for your project type
2. Modify the code owner designation file: `.github/CODEOWNERS`
3. Validate the content of `.gitignore` file
4. Modify the pull request template to fit your workflow needs: `.github/pull_request_template.md`
5. Make your new `README.md` file your own

**Note:** `CHANGELOG.md` and `version.txt` are both automatically generated
by _semantic-release_

## Step 4 › Configure the _GitHub_ repository settings

★ The `main` branch is sacred. It must be deployable at any given time.  
We **strongly recommend** you configure your repository following [**_Gitflow_**](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/comparing-workflows/gitflow-workflow) branching scheme
```
                                                      tag:release-1
┈┈ main ┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┴┈┈┈┈→
     └┈ develop ┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┈┴┈┈┈┈┈┈→  
                   └┈ feature 1 ┈┈┈┘    └┈ feature 2 ┈┈┈┘

```
with _**Branch Protection Rule**_ enable for the default branch (i.e. `main`) and the `dev` branches.
**Note**: 
- The name `main` or `master` are convention for the principal release branch.
- The name `dev`, `devel` or `develop` are convention for the bleeding edge branch.
- The name `beta` and `alpha` are convention pre-release branch.

Go to the `Settings` > `Branches` and click `Add branch protection rule` in the _Branch Protection Rule_ panel 

![branch_protection_rule_menu.png](visual/branch_protection_rule_menu.png)

and set the following:
1. Set _Branch name pattern_ to `main`
2. Set _Require a pull request before merging_
   - Set _Require approvals_ with default number to 1 
   - Set _Dismiss stale pull request approvals when new commits are pushed_ 
   - Set _Require review from Code Owners_ 
5. Set _Require status checks to pass before merging_ 
   - Set _Require branches to be up to date before merging_;
   - (Optional) If you use a Continuous Integration service such as _**GitHub actions**_ or our **_norlab-teamcity-server_**, add the _Status check tahat are required_ name.
3. Set _Require conversation resolution before merging_
4. Set _Restrict who can push to matching branches_
6. Repeat for the `dev` branch
   


## Step 5 › Enable release automation tools (semantic versioning)  

### Why:
Assuming your repository is part of a bigger system, 
- easily identify the repository state currently in use as a dependency
- and escape "dependency hell". 

### How
Any push to the `main` branch will trigger the execution of [_semantic-release_](https://semantic-release.gitbook.io) which will analyse each commits message to determine the version bump following [_semantic versioning_](https://semver.org) scheme `MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH`.

### On version bump, 
- a new repository tag gets published with the newest versions number `v<MAJOR>.<MINOR>.<PATCH>`
- the `CHANGELOG.md` and the `version.txt` files gets updated
- a new repository release gets published on the _Releases_ page 

**Note:** not each commit type triggers a version bump e.g.
`<type>!` triggers a `MAJOR` version bump, 
`feat` triggers a `MINOR` version bump, 
`fix` and`perf` triggers a `PATCH` version bump
and all others such as `doc` and `style` will register for the next release but won't trigger one.


### Configuration
1. Generate a GitHub [personal access token](https://github.com/settings/tokens) 
2. and register the generated token on your repository as a _Repository Secrets_ named `SEMANTIC_RELEASE_GH_TOKEN`: 
   - method 1: using [GitHub cli](https://cli.github.com), using command 
     ```shell
     # From repository root
     $ gh secret set SEMANTIC_RELEASE_GH_TOKEN --body "<your-generated-token-value>"
     ```
   - method 2: via your repository GitHub web page by going to the `Settings/secrets and variables/Actions` tab, add a _Repository Secrets_ with the name `SEMANTIC_RELEASE_GH_TOKEN`.   
3. Modify the _**semantic-release**_ GitHub action implemented in `.github/workflows/semantic_release.yml` if necessary. The current configuration should do the trick for most use cases.  
4. Adopt the [_conventional-commit_](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/) specification. This is a **hard requirement** for _semantic-release_.  
  See [commit_msg_reference.md](./commit_msg_reference.md) for a quick summary.
        
References: 
- [semantic-release/GitHub Actions](https://semantic-release.gitbook.io/semantic-release/recipes/ci-configurations/github-actions)  
- GitHub 
  - [Personal access token](https://github.com/settings/tokens)
  - [Creating a personal access token for the command line](https://help.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/creating-a-personal-access-token-for-the-command-line)

---

# Questions: 

**I'm concern using _conventional-commit_ will slow me down:** 
<br> 
It does not discourage moving fast, ["It discourages moving fast in a disorganized way"](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/#doesnt-this-discourage-rapid-development-and-fast-iteration) 

**What if I want to revert a buggy release:**
<br> 
Either fix the bug and push a `fix` commit or revert the problematic commits and push a `revert` commit.  

**I don't want to use _semantic-release_ or _conventional-commit_ in my development workflow:**
<br>
No problem, just disable the _semantic-release_ github action by deleting the `.github/workflows/semantic_release.yml` file.

[//]: # (....MonTitre..............................................................................)
