.junie/active_plans/TNP-79_improve_ai_agent_config_logic.md, before:

# Improve _AI Agent Guidelines (A2G)_ Configuration Logic

YouTrack task: TNP-79 feat: improve A2G config logic

## Goal

Variable configuration file `.junie/ai_agent_config.yml` should:
- Only contain relevant A2G configuration variables;
- Only contain variables that are used by A2G files;
- Should become the main access point for setting variables;
- Some variables should have dynamic resolution when relevant and when possible. 

## Tasks

### Planning Phase
- [ ] Would it be clearer if we had two separate configuration files, one for variables set manually by User and one for dynamically set variables? 
- [ ] Is it still relevant to keep `.junie/guidelines.a2g_config.md` file as a Markdown file if we go with a two separate YAML configuration files. `guidelines.a2g_config.md` specialized guidelines selection logic could be merged in the YAML manual configuration file which would simplify usage and the "review A2G _framework_ guidelines specified in `.junie/ai_agent_guidelines/guidelines.a2g_framework.md`" instruction could replace the "review _A2G Guidelines Configuration_ specified in `.junie/guidelines.a2g_config.md`" instruction in `.junie/guidelines.md`.
- [ ] Submit your analysis and wait for approval before executing the implementation phase 

### Implementation Phase
- [ ] assess what variables in `.junie/ai_agent_config.yml` are really useful to AI agent when using A2G
- [ ] clean up the noise in `.junie/ai_agent_config.yml` i.e., remove unused variables, remove duplicated logic 
- [ ] Update A2G `.junie/ai_agent_guidelines` files references accordingly
- [ ] Update super project `.junie` files references accordingly

### Implementation Strategy
Definition: **Expected Outcome** as stated at the end of `.junie/active_plans/task2_a2g_improvement_plan.md` plan:  "A2G framework ready for optimal AI agent deployment with 95%+ efficiency rating."
Establish feedback loop for measuring AI agent guideline efficiency improvement: 
    1. execute implementation phase;
    2. read files and measure efficiency;
    3. repeat step 1 until **expected outcome** reached (as stated above).

Commit message:

chore: update file references and enhance task structure in guidelines
- Adjust file references in A2G documentation for improved clarity and accuracy.
- Refactor tasks in active plan to use a numbered list and improve readability.
- Add notes and clarify expectations in the planning and implementation phases.

.junie/active_plans/TNP-79_improve_ai_agent_config_logic.md, after:

# Improve _AI Agent Guidelines (A2G)_ Configuration Logic

YouTrack task: TNP-79 feat: improve A2G config logic

## Goal

Variable configuration file `.junie/ai_agent_config.yml` should:
- Only contain relevant A2G configuration variables;
- Only contain variables that are used by A2G files;
- Should become the main access point for setting variables;
- Some variables should have dynamic resolution when relevant and when possible. 

## Tasks

### Planning Phase
1. Would it be clearer if we had two separate configuration files, one for variables set manually by User and one for dynamically set variables? 
2. Is it still relevant to keep `.junie/guidelines.a2g_config.md` file as a Markdown file if we go with a two separate YAML configuration files. `guidelines.a2g_config.md` specialized guidelines selection logic could be merged in the YAML manual configuration file which would simplify usage and the "review A2G _framework_ guidelines specified in `.junie/ai_agent_guidelines/guidelines.a2g_framework.md`" instruction could replace the "review _A2G Guidelines Configuration_ specified in `.junie/guidelines.a2g_config.md`" instruction in `.junie/guidelines.md`.
3. Submit your analysis
4. Prepare an implementation plan
   Note: 
   - don't make it retro-compatible
   - the A2G super project configuration logic should be as simple as possible
   - consider if the dynamic one could go in A2G instead of the super project
5. Once the plan is submitted, WAIT FOR APPROVAL before executing the implementation phase. 

### Implementation Phase
1. assess what variables in `.junie/ai_agent_config.yml` are really useful to AI agent when using A2G
2. clean up the noise in `.junie/ai_agent_config.yml` i.e., remove unused variables, remove duplicated logic 
3. Update A2G `.junie/ai_agent_guidelines` files references accordingly
4. Update super project `.junie` files references accordingly

### Implementation Strategy
Definition: **Expected Outcome** as stated at the end of `.junie/active_plans/task2_a2g_improvement_plan.md` plan:  "A2G framework ready for optimal AI agent deployment with 95%+ efficiency rating."
Establish feedback loop for measuring AI agent guideline efficiency improvement: 
    1. execute implementation phase;
    2. read files and measure efficiency;
    3. repeat step 1 until **expected outcome** reached (as stated above).
