.junie/ai_ignored/recipes.md, before:

# Prompt Instruction Recipes

Is AI ignore

## General

```markdown
Read and implement the plan at `.junie/active_plans/TODO.md`.
```

```markdown
Review guidelines at `.junie/guidelines.md`.
Execute all unit-tests and all integration tests before submitting.
```

```markdown
Add/refactor/improve `FILE_NAME`
Check if it introduce any breaking change in the code base by running both unit-tests and integration tests.
Propose source code change if relevant.
Update Markdown documentation accordingly. 
```

```markdown
Inspire yourself with ....
```

```markdown
### Implementation Strategy

Definition: **expected outcome** -> "A2G framework ready for optimal AI agent deployment with 95%+ efficiency rating."

Establish feedback loop for measuring AI agent guideline efficiency improvement:
1. execute implementation phase;
2. read files and measure efficiency;
3. repeat step 1 until **expected outcome** reached (as stated above).
```


## Improve/refactor source code

```markdown
Refactor/improve `FILE_NAME`.
TODO
Review guidelines at `.junie/guidelines.md`.
Update `test_FILE_NAME` accordingly.
Create at least one test case per new command argument and/or options, update current tests cases
otherwise.
Test relevant option and arguments combination.
Check if it introduce any breaking change in the code base by running both unit-tests and
integration tests.
Propose source code change if relevant.
Update Markdown documentation accordingly.
Execute all unit-tests and all integration tests before submitting.
```

## Modify proposed tests solutions

```markdown
Integration tests `test_FILE_NAME1` and `test_FILE_NAME2` are all failing.
Please investigate and make the required changes.
Review guidelines at `.junie/guidelines.md`.
```

```markdown
You overcomplicated `FILE_NAME` new test cases.
Don't test flag that are not part of the source code definition even if they are mentioned in the doc.
You only need a test case for TODO
```

````markdown
The following proposed code in `FILE_NAME1` is overcomplicated

```shell
TODO
```

Instead, inspire yourself with `FILE_NAME2` implementation:

```shell
TODO
```

Its clearer, explicit and more intuitive.
````

Commit message:

feat: remove A2G framework and specialized guidelines
- Deleted A2G framework-related guidelines to simplify repo structure
- Removed all specialized guidelines, recipes, and configuration files
- Streamlines project to focus on non-A2G related activities

Issue TNP-78

.junie/ai_ignored/recipes.md, after:

# Prompt Instruction Recipes

Is AI ignore

## General

```markdown
Read and implement the plan at `.junie/active_plans/TODO.md`.
```

```markdown
I have made minor modification to the plan at `.junie/active_plans/TODO`
Establish feedback loop for measuring AI agent guideline efficiency improvement:
1. implementation plan;
2. read files and measure efficiency;
3. repeat step 1 until **expected outcome** reached (as stated in the plan).
```

```markdown
Review guidelines at `.junie/guidelines.md`.
Execute all unit-tests and all integration tests before submitting.
```

```markdown
Add/refactor/improve `FILE_NAME`
Check if it introduce any breaking change in the code base by running both unit-tests and integration tests.
Propose source code change if relevant.
Update Markdown documentation accordingly. 
```

```markdown
Inspire yourself with ....
```

```markdown
### Implementation Strategy

Definition: **expected outcome** -> "A2G framework ready for optimal AI agent deployment with 95%+ efficiency rating."

Establish feedback loop for measuring AI agent guideline efficiency improvement:
1. execute implementation phase;
2. read files and measure efficiency;
3. repeat step 1 until **expected outcome** reached (as stated above).
```


## Improve/refactor source code

```markdown
Refactor/improve `FILE_NAME`.
TODO
Review guidelines at `.junie/guidelines.md`.
Update `test_FILE_NAME` accordingly.
Create at least one test case per new command argument and/or options, update current tests cases
otherwise.
Test relevant option and arguments combination.
Check if it introduce any breaking change in the code base by running both unit-tests and
integration tests.
Propose source code change if relevant.
Update Markdown documentation accordingly.
Execute all unit-tests and all integration tests before submitting.
```

## Modify proposed tests solutions

```markdown
Integration tests `test_FILE_NAME1` and `test_FILE_NAME2` are all failing.
Please investigate and make the required changes.
Review guidelines at `.junie/guidelines.md`.
```

```markdown
You overcomplicated `FILE_NAME` new test cases.
Don't test flag that are not part of the source code definition even if they are mentioned in the doc.
You only need a test case for TODO
```

````markdown
The following proposed code in `FILE_NAME1` is overcomplicated

```shell
TODO
```

Instead, inspire yourself with `FILE_NAME2` implementation:

```shell
TODO
```

Its clearer, explicit and more intuitive.
````
